To accommodate the backup agent tool's specifications, the system admin team at xFusionCorp Industries requires the creation of a user with a non-interactive shell. Here's your task: Create a user named mariyam with a non-interactive shell on App Server 2.

Create a Non-Interactive User on App Server 2
1. Task Overview

As part of system administration requirements at xFusionCorp Industries, a user account needed to be created for a backup agent tool. The requirement specified that the user must have a non-interactive shell, ensuring that the account cannot be used for direct login while still being available for system-level operations.

2. Objective

Create a user named mariyam

Perform the task on App Server 2 (stapp02)

Assign a non-interactive shell to the user

Follow Linux security best practices

3. Environment Details
Component	Details
Server Name	stapp02
Hostname	stapp02.stratos.xfusioncorp.com
Server Role	Nautilus Application Server 2
OS Type	Linux
Access Method	SSH via Jump Server
4. Background Knowledge
What is a Non-Interactive Shell?

A non-interactive shell prevents a user from logging into the system via SSH or console. Such users are commonly created for:

Backup agents

Monitoring tools

System services

Common Non-Interactive Shells

/sbin/nologin (Preferred & secure)

/bin/false (Fallback option)

5. Step-by-Step Execution
Step 1: Login to App Server 2
ssh steve@stapp02

Explanation:

Connects to App Server 2 using the provided user credentials.

Step 2: Switch to Root User
sudo -i

Explanation:

Opens a root login shell.

Required to perform administrative tasks like user creation.

Step 3: Create the User with Non-Interactive Shell
useradd -s /sbin/nologin mariyam

Explanation:

useradd → Command to create a new user

-s /sbin/nologin → Assigns a non-interactive shell

mariyam → Username

This ensures the user cannot log in interactively.

Step 4: Verify User Creation
getent passwd mariyam

Expected Output (example):

mariyam:x:1005:1005::/home/mariyam:/sbin/nologin

Verification Points:

User exists

Assigned shell is /sbin/nologin

6. Validation Checks
Confirm Shell Exists on System
ls -l /sbin/nologin
Confirm It Is an Approved Shell
cat /etc/shells

Both checks confirm that /sbin/nologin is valid and available.

7. Errors Faced

❌ No errors were encountered during execution.

8. Security Considerations

Prevents unauthorized SSH access

Limits attack surface

Follows principle of least privilege

Ideal for service and automation accounts

9. Final Outcome

✅ User mariyam successfully created
✅ Non-interactive shell assigned
✅ Task completed as per requirement

10. Key Learnings

How to create service users securely in Linux

Importance of non-interactive shells

Usage of /sbin/nologin in enterprise environments

Verification using getent and /etc/shells

11. Conclusion

This task demonstrates a real-world Linux system administration scenario commonly encountered in production environments. Creating non-interactive users is a fundamental security practice, especially when dealing with automated tools such as backup agents.

🔗 This report is intended for documentation and learning purposes and can be included in a GitHub repository as part of a DevOps/Linux administration portfolio.
